[MUSIC]
We've introduced the expected
Sarsa control algorithm.
Now, it's time to see it in action.
By the end of this video, you will be
able to describe expected Sarsas's
behavior in an example MDP and empirically
compare expected Sarsa and Sarsa.
We will use the cliff walk
environment again, so
we can talk about Sarsa, q-learning and
expected Sarsa all at once.
Let's recap.
This environment is an undiscounted
episodic grid world
with a cliff on the bottom edge.
Moving into the cliff moves the agent back
to the start with a reward of minus 100.
Otherwise, the reward is
minus one on each time step.
Sarsa performed better than
Q learning on this domain
because Sarsa's policy accounted for
its own exploration.
Today, we'll compare expected Sarsa
to Sarsa with an epsilon of 0.1.
This plot was created by testing each
agent with different values of the step
size parameter alpha.
We did a hundred episodes and averaged
everything over 50,000 independent runs.
The y axis shows the average
return per episode and
the x axis shows the step size values.
Sarsa's performance increases with larger
step size values, but only up to a point.
The best alpha value for
Sarsa here was 0.9.
Expected Sarsa outperformed Sarsa for
almost all values of alpha.
Expected Sarsa's able to use larger
alpha values more effectively.
This is because it explicitly averages
over the randomness due to its own policy.
This environment is deterministic, so
there are no other sources of
randomness to account for.
This means expected Sarsa's updates
are deterministic for a given state and
action.
Sarsa's updates on the other hand
can vary significantly
depending on the next action.
Now let's look at the average return
per episode after 100,000 episodes.
At this point, each algorithm has
learned everything it's going to learn.
Expected Sarsa's long-term
behavior is unaffected by alpha.
Its updates are deterministic
in this example.
Therefore the step size only determines
how quickly the estimates
approach their target values.
Sarsa behaves quite differently here,
it even fails to converge for
larger values of alpha.
As alpha decreases, Sarsa's long run
performance approaches expected Sarsa's.
In this video, we've seen that expected
Sarsa was able to quickly learn
a good policy in the cliff world and
that expected Sarsa is more robust
than Sarsa to large step sizes.